[Music]
so welcome to topcast
and to episode three of the science of
canon cart called
information and this first episode is
just going to be an
introduction to the chapter rather than
me doing any readings of the chapter
and i'm going to call this the science
of information you know i'm
going to go through some of what we know
about information so far
without really concentrating too much on
constructor theory or the new material
that is in this particular chapter no
readings
from the science of cannon cart today
but i'll have another episode out
very very shortly which does contain the
readings from
this chapter it has some really
interesting insights about the link
between
physics and information these links have
been made before
or i should say links between physics
and the theory of information have been
made before but here with constructor
theory there is a new window into seeing
the way in which information has
physical properties and of course
information
is very closely connected as we will see
to knowledge which is an area of
interest of mine
which means that we have an interesting
connection as already mentioned in this
series between
physics and epistemology the work of
david deutsch like i say
often focuses on knowledge more than
information in the beginning of infinity
for example
but how are knowledge and information
different if at all
well before i get to the correct answer
i think we should look at some ways of
describing the issue that are probably
less than fruitful here for example is a
popular meme
type representation of things that gets
around
and here are some more i mean we're
getting some kind of insight here into
what
possibly the difference between
information
and knowledge is knowledge seems to be
higher up the hierarchy so to speak
and in some of these we're even getting
a different species
of this way of understanding the world
namely
data or data on the one hand and wisdom
on the other but how true is this
and how sharply can we distinguish
between these different levels if
indeed levels there are when i was a
senior in
high school i could take a subject which
was computer science and i did so and in
that subject
we were taught that data was elemental
so to speak and unorganized
while information was still data but it
was organized now so
your list of data just raw numbers
could be organized into a table which
turns it into
information so with this particular
cartoon
we've got data information
knowledge wisdom now data is
i used to be taught was just the
unorganized
version of information as i said
information being the organized
kind knowledge i suppose came down to
something about
it being useful in some way that
information
but we were never really told why and
then wisdom well what is wisdom
i think these words do mean something
and i think we could still use
these words in a rough way
to capture realities about the world for
example what i mean by that is well
data might very well be equated to
evidence
it's always there it's ready to be
captured
but you haven't yet captured it perhaps
and so
the sun is shining right now and that
light that's falling down to the earth
contains evidence or data
which if only you knew how to interpret
it if only you knew how to interpret the
photons and the information being
carried by those photons
then you would be able to construct
knowledge but you'd need to collect the
data first
using some kind of instrument and you
might not necessarily understand what
that data means
when you begin to have an understanding
and you begin to put it into
tables and graphs and so on then you
have information once you
finally figure out that there's a
problem with your data or with your
information
or that that information does or does
not agree with the particular theory you
previously had then you start to create
knowledge then you start to solve
problems with that information that's
when it becomes knowledge now what's
wisdom in this picture well i would say
that wisdom is
basically a moral claim something is
deci
something is described as being why
simply when it is morally good
so it's wise to do that thing means it's
good to do that thing
it's unwise to do that thing means it's
bad to do that thing and i don't know if
wisdom has
much more cachet beyond that insofar as
it is a
form of knowledge it is a moral claim
about the knowledge
how we should use knowledge you have the
knowledge perhaps of
how to set off a bomb or how to create a
virus but would that be wise
in other words should you do it well
wise just means good
i would suggest now these days i would
say that that is a kind of distinction
which makes little difference data is
information
as we will come to see anything one
could say about a data
fits with what we say about information
what we'll come to say about information
so then how is knowledge different well
following the work of david deutsch
we have i think about three roughly
equivalent approaches
to what knowledge is in terms of
information
and so these days i would say something
like
knowledge is one useful information
and you might very well ask what do you
mean by useful
well that brings us to the second
quality that knowledge has in terms of
information
knowledge is information that solves a
problem
and so this is what it means to be
useful
essentially those two are kind of
equivalent three
knowledge is information that tends to
get itself replicated
so it's the stuff that gets copied it is
the
composition that the musician is trying
to come up with
that does not get thrown into the waste
paper basket
it is the data not filled with noise or
errors and so on
that the astronomer the geologist the
zoologist keeps and preserves
and then that ends up in the journal
article somewhere that they publish
now another way of formulating this and
it's a little bit more verbose but i
actually
like the poetry of this one but it means
the same thing as
information that gets itself replicated
so i'll call this 3a
knowledge is information that once
instantiated in some physical substrate
tends to remain so and so this is a
remarkable feature of knowledge
knowledge is that kind of information
which once you've written it down on a
piece of paper well there it is in a
physical substrate
you may very well have had that thought
in your mind
and it's in a physical substrate there
but if you forget it if it's utterly
forgotten for the rest of your life
then it doesn't really form part of your
knowledge
let alone everyone else's knowledge so
if you write it down now it's in a
more robust physical substrate and maybe
then you go on to publish it somewhere
and it remains there not only
instantiated in the original physical
substrate for some time for so long as
that physical substrate remains but the
important thing is
it can get copied over and over again
and that brings us to what i would call
3b and this is
following what we're about to read in
the signs of canon card by caramelito
and she describes information here as
knowledge which is
resilient it's resilient information
and so that's got now something to do
with design it's very much echoing what
we just said in that 3a definition
but it's the capacity of the system
itself
to maintain itself in existence and the
very remarkable and deep thing here
is that as kiara will explain knowledge
is the most resilient
the most robust thing in the universe
that seems to be able to just maintain
itself
off into the indefinite future far more
robustly
than other physical objects that exist
other physical objects are subject to
erosion and decay during the second law
of thermodynamics
the issue there is there's no error
correction so if you really did want to
preserve the rock
how do you go about doing it well the
only way would be able to gather
information about the rock and perhaps
make a copy of it but of course that
wouldn't be the original
okay so there are some ways of circling
around this term
knowledge knowledge has of course as we
learned
in the beginning of infinity great reach
explanatory knowledge in particular
has reach and all of this is very well
but we're still talking about knowledge
we haven't actually gotten to
inflammation in the physics of
information we haven't broached that
topic yet
there are mathematical theories of
information just information broadly
the most famous is claude shannon's
which links information to uncertainty
or something like degrees of freedom
which means it is
directly linked to entropy entropy is a
concept from
thermodynamics which is about disorder
it tries to quantify the amount of
disorder
disorder uncertainty degrees of freedom
these are all ways of speaking about the
same thing
in more or less precise terms whatever
the case
we can quantify how much information we
have
using this idea for example before we
toss a coin we lack information about
whether it's
heads or tails when we learn its heads
we've gained
some information if the coin is fair the
chance of it being
heads is one in two to encode that
using information would take one bit one
binary digit
in other words a zero or a one zero
representing perhaps the head and one
representing perhaps the tail so
because it only takes one bit of
information we can actually say its
entropy is
one a way of looking at this is to ask
well
how many questions would a person need
to ask
to know the outcome of the coin toss
well it's one you need to ask one
question
is it a head and if the answer is yes
you know it's a head and if the answer
is no
you know it's a tail hence the entropy
or information content
is if you like one and indeed claude
shannon
provided us with a mathematical formula
to tell you what the entropy h
is so maybe we'll use this formula just
just for the intuitive example of the
heads versus tails case with the coin so
let's go through this formula
and at the risk of losing everyone by
explaining how logarithms work
i'll do the calculation only once for
this simple case but not for any more
difficult cases okay i
know that many of my viewers are quite
proficient in
physics and mathematics so you can skip
this part
because i'm going to do a basic
introduction to logarithms
and indices for the people who watch me
who
don't understand this staff maybe have
had experience at school let's say
and in particular who want to understand
shannon's formula that's about to come
which explains the quantification of
information and requires us to have
some understanding of logarithms so
anyway a logarithm
which is something that looks like this
usually written in this form here
is basically the same thing as an
indices or an exponent it's just two
ways of writing the same thing
what this thing here means the logarithm
to base 2 of some number x equals 8
means
which number x do we need to raise 2
to the power of in order to get 8 or
we can write it like this 2 to the power
of some number equals 8. what is that
some number
well to the power of one would be two to
the power of two is four
two to the power of three is eight all
right fine
but what about other indices what in
particular what about negative indices
we're going to need negative indices for
what i'm about to explain so i thought
it would be useful to go through
a pattern which can explain
or at least force one to the conclusion
that negative indices
end up giving us numbers that are less
than one okay fractional
numbers and so here are the ones that
people are familiar with over here 2 to
the power of 1 2 to the power of 2 to
the power 3 to the power 4.
so what to the power of 1 or well 2 to
the power 2 means is 2 times 2.
to the power three is two times itself
three times and two to the power of four
is
two times itself four times whatever the
case is we always start with the number
two because we're talking about
powers of two we're halving
what the two is being multiplied by so
here we're saying
2 multiplied by 2 times 2 times 2 which
is
8 there okay 2 times 8 is 16.
half of 8 that's 4 okay so we get 2
times 4 which is 8
half of 4 that's 2 half of 2
is 1 and so when we get down to 2 to the
power of 1 we're
asking what is 2 times 1 which is 2 okay
the only reason i'm emphasizing this is
if we're halving this number
by which two is being multiplied then
the next one
logically would be half of one which is
itself a half
the pattern here is we're going the
indices going down by one each time
four three two 1 or the next one we
subtract 1 again
and we get to 0. and you can see what
happens here we subtract
1 and we get minus 1 we subtract another
one we get minus 2. so this is where the
negative indices come in but if we're
following the pattern
over in this column here about the
product then
halving the one leading to a half
then means we need to find half of what
a half is which is a quarter
and a half of a quarter an eighth all
right so that's that so this is why
this pattern of going down by one each
time leads to this pattern over here of
halfing the number by which two is being
multiplied
so what are our solutions well
everyone's familiar with 2 to the power
of 4 16
half of that 8 half of that 4 half of
that 2 half of that 1.
2 to the power of 0 is 1 which is
sometimes surprising to people
but that's simply a fact given the
pattern here in fact any number
3 to the power of 0 is also 1. 4 to the
power of 0 is 1 you might want to
convince yourself of that if you're not
already familiar with this by doing your
own table
if we halve one because that's what
we've been doing in this column here
168421 well half of one
is a half so 2 to the power of minus 1
corresponds to a half this is the most
important
part of this table for what we need to
understand
next with shannon's formula continuing
the pattern though
2 to the power of minus 2 that's 1 over
4. the reason that's 1 over 4 by the way
is because that's 1 over
2 squared so we could turn this into a
positive
indices so just like this but put 1 over
that
and that's why we end up with this 1
over 2 cubed
is 1 over 8 and so you can just imagine
continuing the table down these numbers
get ever
and ever smaller so the smaller and
smaller the indice or the exponent the
smaller and smaller the actual number
that we're talking about
so this is what indices are about and
this connects then
to logarithms which is just another way
of writing
exponents or indices just another way of
talking about it so
keep that in mind as we go forward from
here on in
but i think it's useful for uh people
who might not be familiar with
mathematics
to link what looks like a complicated
formula to common sense
so what on earth are we looking at here
okay well h is going to represent h
as a function of x h is going to
represent the quantity of information
okay so that that's ultimately what
we're looking for we're looking for h
and that's going to equal
the negative of sigma sigma means the
sum so we've got the sum
from i equals one so from whatever our
first thing is all the way up to n the
total number of possibilities that we've
got
now in the case of the coin we're going
to have two possibilities we're going to
have either a heads or a tail so our n
is going to be two and and basically
that will mean that we're
summing two terms together okay it's the
sum of what the sum of
it's the probability of x occurring
multiplied by the logarithm
of that probability okay to some base b
and in this case
we're going to be using the base of two
because we
have only two possibilities is the long
and short of it for that explanation
okay so let's go through this in plain
english what this formula then
means is that we've got the probability
of heads happening
multiplied by the logarithm to base 2
of the probability of heads occurring
plus because we're doing a sum so that
was our first term
plus the probability of tails happening
multiplied by the logarithm
to base two of the probability of tails
occurring
okay so that's the plain english way of
understanding what
that previous very abstract formula is
getting at
okay so and all i want to do here is to
really show you that the formula does
indeed lead to
the common sense notion that you need
one bit of information
in order to quantify the amount of
information
in a coin toss okay so now we move to
the numbers what is
indeed the probability of getting a
heads
well it's one in two okay so there's a
negative there so negative in front of
the probability
so now we have that all being equal to
the negative of what's the probability
of heads well it's a half
times the logarithm to base 2 of a half
plus the probability of tails again it's
a half
a logarithm to base 2 of a half there we
go
and that all equals negative a half
times now
what is the logarithm to base 2 of a
half
what this means is you're looking for a
number
such that if you take two that's our
base and the reason why it's called the
base is because
when you put it into exponential form
okay exponents and logarithms
are the inverse operations of one
another much like
multiplication is to division or
addition is to subtraction they're the
reverse of one another what we're going
to do here is to convert our logarithm
into an exponent or an exponential we're
going to take that 2
and raise it to the power of x and x is
indeed
the number we're searching for it is
going to be the logarithm of the number
and all of that equals a half that's
where that half comes in there
so we've got 2 to the power of x equals
a half now what is the x
because that's going to be the solution
to the number that we're actually after
well it happens to be minus one because
if you raise
two to the power of minus one you'll get
one over
two where are we up to we've got
negative outside of one over two times
minus one plus but we're just going to
repeat it aren't we because whatever we
just did there
for the case of heads we're going to do
for the case of tails it's exactly the
same mathematics it's going to be
the probability of a half multiplied by
logarithm base 2 of a half which again
is minus 1.
so this little reduces to it's going to
equal
minus let's put a bracket there minus a
half
plus in brackets minus a half so we've
got minus a half plus minus a half
which reduces to well if you've got
minus a half plus minus a half well the
plus and the minus
the minus wins that battle there so to
speak and so you end up with minus a
half
minus a half is minus one minus outside
of minus one
that's one that's it that's the answer
so we've managed to prove that our
common sense notion that the amount of
information
in a coin flip if you like is
one bit using shannon's mathematical
description of what information is to
quantify the amount of information in
something
so we've we've recovered so to speak the
common sense understanding
using the mathematical formula so i have
convinced you that mathematical formula
indeed
has something to do with reality but
consider if you were rolling a fair dice
now then you've got
six possible outcomes so we could go
through this and do it all over again
the chance of rolling a two for example
the chance of rolling any particular
number
is going to be one over six so if you
wanted to go through and do the
n equals 6 case 4 1 over 6
and apply the formula you'll need a
calculator for this one you will end up
getting an
answer which is about 2.6
this means that on average you need to
ask
2.6 questions binary yes or no questions
by the way
to get the right answer so you might ask
is the number
when you roll the dice is the number one
two or three and the person would have
to say yes or no
and if they say no then you would have
to ask the question uh is it four or
five for example and if they say no well
then you know that it's six
so you've had to ask two questions there
but if they said yes to four and five to
four
or five then you would have to say well
is it four so you've asked three
questions so it's somewhere between two
and three questions on average in order
to get
the amount of information in a dice roll
but on average it's precisely 2.6
and the point of all this well the point
here is that there is more information
gained
on learning the outcome of a dice roll
as compared to a coin flip
one way i would put this in popularian
terms is that we have
ruled out more upon learning
what the dice ended up being as compared
to the coin toss
with the coin we ruled out one
possibility only
but with the dice we ruled out five
possibilities
this links nicely to the way david
sometimes speaks about the laws of
physics they are in large part about
what they
rule out they say what is impossible
what cannot happen
and very good explanations explanations
hard to vary
explanations with a lot of knowledge or
information content rule out
a lot more and all of that is fine and
accurate
but we're going to refine it here today
after all what we've done there
is we've talked about information
entropy in such a way that it takes
very seriously the physical reality of
probability theory as if probability is
some sort of
fundamental part of reality but anyone
who's been watching me for a while here
or following the work of david deutsch
would know that probability is not a
fundamental part of physics it's not a
fundamental way in which the universe
actually works
so we have to reconcile these ideas
about information
with physics in some way while not
taking probability
seriously as an explanation of what is
really going on
in fundamental reality that of course is
where constructor theory comes
in we are going to understand what is
going on realistically and fundamentally
without saying that a coin has a
probability of landing on heads
of one half and on all this and the
motivation i would imagine for this
particular chapter
in the science of canon can't is the
paper by david deutsch and kiara
marletto in the proceedings of the royal
society a
published in 2015 called the constructor
theory of information
and i would absolutely recommend that
for deep dives into this topic
i'll just read a short part of this
paper here at the beginning
quote deutsche marletto say
in some respects information is a
qualitatively different sort of entity
from all others in terms of which the
physical sciences describe the world
it is not for instance a function only
of tensor fields on space-time as
general relativity requires all physical
quantities to be
nor is it a quantum mechanical
observable
but in other respects information does
resemble
some entities that appear in laws of
physics the theory of
computation and statistical mechanics
seem to refer
directly to it without regard to the
specific media
in which it is instantiated just as
conservation laws do for the
electromagnetic
for current or energy momentum tensor we
call that the
substrate independence of information
information
can also be moved from one type of
medium to another while retaining
all its properties acquire information
we call this
its interoperability property it is
what makes human capabilities such as
language and science
possible as well as the possibility of
biological adaptations
that use symbolic codes such as the
genetic code
in addition information has a counter
factual character
an object in a particular physical state
cannot be said to carry information
unless it could have been in a different
state
as weaver put it this word information
in communication theory
relates not so much to what you do say
as to what you
could say end quote from weaver an end
quote from deutsche maletto 2015.
so this is where we'll begin our book
reading today more or less after a few
more comments by me about various things
information is real it's part of the
physical world and it has effects in the
physical world so physics should have
some account of it
again this is a motivation for
constructive theory because the
dynamical laws and initial conditions
approach
is largely about predictions but here
with information we have yet another
case
where in the physical world we are not
necessarily most interested
in what did happen and what does happen
and what will happen
especially that latter one we cannot
always know this we want to know what
could
possibly happen what might have happened
it's the
physics of possibility and thus what
could happen
is a vast array of possibilities to know
what they are
we need a physics of the possible and
impossible
what transformations are possible and
which are not
so we need this physics of information
okay now before we begin
the reading there is a couple of other
things i'd like to go into
because anyone who studies physics
to a sufficient depth encounters
information at some point and one of the
places in which
even if you just read widely about
physics cosmology
information you're going to come across
the black hole information paradox this
is something that stephen hawking worked
on
and the whole idea here is that well if
you take quantum
physics seriously as a description of
reality which we do
we can say something like the there is a
wave function of the universe there's
wave functions of
any given object but there's a wave
function of the universe and so the wave
function determines
what happens at any given point in the
future so the wave function right now is
going to determine
what happens in the future but the wave
function takes account
of all the information that happens to
exist in a system as the system is the
entire universe
then that system the wave function of
that system
right now is going to determine what
happens in the future but that wave
function right now
must take account of all the information
that's going on right now the positions
of the particles the momentums of the
particles
all these quantum properties of
particles their their spin
their mass various things okay so this
can
be the information of a system at a
particular time
is included in the wave function at any
given time
the black hole information paradox is
well what happens in a black hole black
holes are not only predicted by
general relativity but they have been
observed well the only explanation for
some of the observations we have
is that black holes really truly do
exist but our understanding of black
holes from general relativity also says
that they're a they are a singularity
and if they are a singularity then
anything that falls into the black hole
has its information destroyed leaving
behind
basically only the mass some other
things as well doesn't matter
the point is the information is
supposedly destroyed but if the
information is destroyed
then it can't be the case that the wave
function at any given point in time
is the only thing that determines what
happens in the future after all
some of that information right now if
it's falling into a black hole
is then vanishing from existence so this
is a
problem it's called a paradox but i
would just say it's a problem one theory
general relativity says the information
is destroyed
and the other theory quantum theory says
that the information is required in
order to determine
the future state of the universe how do
we reconcile these two well again this
is just
a problem that we've talked about before
in this podcast series many many times
it's the difficulty of reconciling
quantum theory and
general relativity it's just another
outworking of that
one way that people have tried to
suggest that i always found interesting
with this is that and and i think the
the
movie interstellar tries to represent
this to some extent as well and various
other science fiction
um notions have tried to represent this
which is that
as an object falls into the black hole
an
image of that object remains permanently
fixed on the surface of the event
horizon so
a 2d image of the 3d object perfectly
encapsulates the information that that
object had
for all time and so the black hole grows
and grows and grows and the surface of
the black hole serves the event horizon
grows and grows and grows preserving the
information so the information doesn't
get destroyed because it gets preserved
at the surface of the event horizon of
the black hole forever
and this leads to weird things like
holographic cosmologies where
if it is possible for all the
information of a let's say quantum
object
or any object falling into a black hole
to be preserved on the 2d surface of the
black hole so a 3d object
can be preserved on a 2d surface perhaps
our entire universe
is kind of like that our entire universe
being a universe of
three dimensions of space one dimension
of time can somehow be
represented on a 2d surface
of something else and so that is the way
in which
this 3d universe can exist inside of a
holographic type thing but i don't know
but anyway this this black hole
information paradox as far as i know
it's a real thing that physicists are
working on and it's
yet another problem as to why quantum
theory
and general relativity
aren't yet united maybe a
maybe we need another theory we do we do
we need another theory
and perhaps constructor theory can help
with
this as well there's various popular
videos on youtube you can read about the
quantum information paradox people try
different solutions
if you want if you want to watch a video
where someone says
there's no problem and every single
solution that's ever been suggested for
this is completely
fallacious and doesn't work look at
sabine rossenfelder's video
um sabine hossenfelder's um video it
as i was looking through popular
accounts of this i i stumbled across her
video
which of course as you can see by the
title is going to
attract someone like me because it says
the black hole information loss problem
is unsolved
okay and unsolvable she
she likes that kind of thing you know
it's a um it's kind of click-baity
um a lot of her videos are kind of like
this um
yeah so uh if you if you just skip to
seven minutes 20 of that particular
video she goes through
um one two three four five six seven
she goes through something like ten
different attempts to solve this
and just dismisses them by waving her
hands essentially
or kind of kind of mockingly describing
them just listing them
one after another as if they're all
equivalently silly
you know number seven there is a paper
by by gerard
who is not a physicist who you can
easily just dismiss like that
as if um he's writing nonsense he is not
someone who writes nonsense in fact
i don't know all the physicists who
she's dismissing that easily but
um this is um a habit of hers i would
say
she likes to
not necessarily present her own ideas
about things but present other people's
ideas and then say
what's wrong with all those ideas and
usually not in a substantive way
she just argues from incredulity just
says well i don't believe this i
i i think this is either religion or
nonsense or gobbledygook as she likes to
say
she likes to talk about physics without
the gobbledygook that's in fact how she
uh introduces that particular video but
of course what she actually means
is i'm going to make a video about
gobbledygook without really describing
much of the interesting physics at least
that's my feeling and
watching some of her videos indeed in
this particular case she says
with regards to the ten different
theories that she very quickly dismisses
as not possibly being solutions of the
black hole information paradox
is that it's not a matter of objectively
choosing among the solutions in fact
it's just arbitrarily choosing
which one you prefer which one you like
best now of course i don't understand
all of these 10 theories so i'm not in a
position
to try and objectively assess them but
i'm sure if i sat down for a while and
really studied it for a
long enough time i could figure out that
they're not all on equal footing
and can't be that easily dismissed this
is kind of her habit i don't know
if i'm talking about sabine but she does
have this habit i've watched her in
interviews
and even seen her in discussions with
other physicists
and she is quite critical which is very
good it's a very good
popeyrian attitude to have
but on the other hand she tends to straw
man and denigrate
on the basis of her not liking not
preferring
a particular theory which is of course
not popular at all we need to criticize
but we need to criticize the strongest
possible version of
any given theory and we can only
evaluate
the theory when put in its strongest
possible terms which i don't think she
necessarily does she
tends to summarize the ideas of others
in a way that lacks
generosity and then on the basis of her
personal summary rather than the actual
theory itself
makes some sort of moral call like for
example such and such as nonsense or
such and such as gobbledygook or such
and such is religious
when it comes to certain versions of the
multiverse let's say
and and near the end she actually claims
that the problem here with the black
hole information
paradox is that too many theoretical
physicists
think that physics reduces entirely to
mathematics and it doesn't do this
i agree and of course some are like this
of course you need to have
testable predictions in physics or you
should hope to have testable predictions
in physics
and she claims at the end of the video
that not only is there no data here but
there's
even in principle we can't gather the
data to observe hawking radiation
directly
and this is a problem inherently for all
practical purposes of ever figuring out
which of these theories if any
is true and this is why she says it's
insoluble it's insoluble because
in practice we can't directly observe we
can't observe
the hawking radiation the very thing
that would help us to figure out
how to distinguish to rule out some of
these theories in favor of others
now this to me is of course rank
empiricism
she wants to observe hawking radiation
in order to rule out all the other
theories
it exactly reeks to me of wanting to
observe dinosaurs in order to establish
that dinosaurs really exist or to try
and figure out theories about dinosaurs
or we have access to with fossils and
fossils
tell us all about dinosaurs not
everything we would want to know but
they tell us a lot about dinosaurs
we do not need to travel to the center
of the sun in order to understand
stellar nuclear fusion we do not need to
travel back in time 13.7 billion years
and observe the big b
there at the big bang in order to know
the big bang existed we have other forms
of evidence
there's absolutely no reason why sabine
should rule out
other forms of evidence that might arise
in order to rule out these particular
theories
in fact rule out all the theories except
for one which actually explains
not only hawking radiation and the black
hole information paradox but
new evidence yet to be found but
there we go you know i think there's
this uh complete misunderstanding of
what observation is and what its purpose
is in science so while many physicists
are
in her opinion too hooked on
mathematical models
i tend to think a deeper problem
actually at times as too many physicists
are empiricists certainly sabine is no
doubt she's a absolutely competent
physicist
no problem with that having watched many
videos of her she is
i gather an instrumentalist of a kind
but then of course she's in good company
being an empiricist and an
instrumentalist
i think i'd like maybe to do a reaction
video one day
of her the trouble with many worlds
video
it's deeply misconceived but it's one of
those cases where you begin listening
and almost
every sentence is something one can
object to and reveals deep
misunderstandings so i'm not sure how
illuminating it would be
is the first thing but the second thing
is i don't know how fun it would
actually
be for me ultimately the reason for that
is she just seems kind of angry when she
does many of her videos she gets
very frustrated with other physicists
doing
work or coming up with ideas that are
new and creative
and she dismisses them now for one thing
in this particular video she talks about
the universe's splitting
which as we know is wrong and we've
spent a lot of time
explaining why that is wrong here she
thinks that probability is fundamental
in some way including in the mini
world's interpretation
and somehow her eight minute video of
which i must say
only about three minutes are actually
devoted to discussing the many worlds
is supposed to be a complete refutation
of well
this entire book by wallace among other
things
so like i say it's kind of a straw man
which might
be ungenerous of me to say but that's a
theme in
the videos of hers that i've watched and
her interactions with other physicists
sadly and i should say she does go
through other interpretations as well
but she dismisses them all likewise you
know
none of them are satisfactory to her and
this is again she's in good company
this means that she falls back basically
on instrumentalism of a kind
okay so that's enough of that and that's
enough of my introduction
to the chapter the science of
information
if you like next episode we will do
some actual reading from
the chapter information and find ways in
which constructor theory comes directly
to bear on this question
of what information is how it um
how it interacts with physics but until
then bye
[Music]
you